.TH CONFAB 1 2022-11-24
.SH NAME
confab \- asynchronous line-oriented interactive TCP client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B confab
.RI [ options ]
.I host
.I port
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B confab
is an asynchronous line-oriented interactive TCP client with TLS support.
Use it to connect to a TCP server at a given host & port,
and you'll be able to send messages line by line
while lines received from the remote server are printed above the prompt.
.PP
Lines entered by the user at the
.B confab
prompt are sent to the remote server and echoed locally with a ">" prefix,
while lines received from the remote server
are printed out above the prompt with a "<" prefix.
Communication stops when the remote server closes the connection
or when the user presses Ctrl-D.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --crlf
Append CR LF (\(dq\(rsr\(rsn\(dq) to each line sent to the remote server
instead of just LF (\(dq\(rsn\(dq)
.TP
\fB\-E\fR \fIencoding\fR, \fB\-\-encoding\fR \fIencoding\fR
Set the text encoding for the connection.
The available options are:
.RS
.TP
.B utf8
Use UTF-8.
If a line received from the remote server contains an invalid UTF-8 sequence,
the sequence is replaced with U+FFFD REPLACEMENT CHARACTER.
.TP
.B utf8-latin1
Use UTF-8.
If a line received from the remote server contains an invalid UTF-8 sequence,
the entire line is instead decoded as Latin-1.
(Useful for IRC!)
.TP
.B latin1
Use Latin-1 (a.k.a.\& ISO-8859-1).
If a line sent to the remote server contains non-Latin-1 characters,
they are replaced with question marks (?).
.RE
.TP
\fB\-M\fR \fIlimit\fR, \fB\-\-max\-line\-length\fR \fIlimit\fR
Set the maximum length in bytes of each line read from the remote server
(including the terminating newline).
If the server sends a line longer than this,
the first
.I limit
bytes will be split off and treated as a whole line,
with the remaining bytes treated as the start of a new line.
The default value is 65535.
.TP
.BI \-\-servername \ domain
[used with \fB\-\-tls\fR]
Use the given domain name for SNI and certificate hostname validation;
defaults to the remote host name
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-show\-times
Prepend a timestamp of the form [HH:MM:SS] to each line printed to the terminal
.TP
.B \-\-tls
Connect using SSL/TLS
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB\-\-transcript\fR \fIfile\fR
Append a transcript of events to the given file.  See
.B TRANSCRIPT FORMAT
below for more information.
.SH TRANSCRIPT FORMAT
The session transcripts produced by the
.B -T
option take the form of JSON Lines (a.k.a. newline-delimited JSON),
that is, a series of lines with one JSON object per line.
Each JSON object represents an event such as a line sent, a line received,
or the start or end of the connection.
.PP
Each object contains, at minimum, a "timestamp" field containing a timestamp
for the event in the form "YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SS.ssssss+HH:MM"
and an "event" field identifying the type of event.
The possible values for the "event" field,
along with any accompanying further fields, are as follows:
.TP
"connection-start"
Emitted just before starting to connect to the remote server.
The event object also contains "host" and "port" fields
listing the remote host & port specified on the command line.
.TP
"connection-complete"
Emitted after connecting successfully
(but before negotiating TLS, if applicable).
The event object also contains a "peer_ip" field
listing the remote IP address that the connection was made to.
.TP
"tls-start"
Emitted before starting the TLS handshake.
The event object has no additional fields.
.TP
"tls-complete"
Emitted after completing the TLS handshake.
The event object has no additional fields.
.TP
"recv"
Emitted whenever a line is received from the remote server.
The event object also contains a "data" field giving the line received,
including trailing newline (if any).
.TP
"send"
Emitted whenever a line is send to the remote server.
The event object also contains a "data" field giving the line sent,
including trailing newline (if any).
.TP
"disconnect"
Emitted when the connection is closed normally.
The event object has no additional fields.
.TP
"error"
Emitted when a fatal error occurs.
The event object also contains a "data" field
giving a human-readable error message.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nc (1),
.BR netcat (1),
.BR telnet (1)
.PP
Source code, issue tracker, and additional information can be found on GitHub at
.RI < https://github.com/jwodder/confab >.
